Add JUnit 5 `ScorerExtension` for AI model evaluation and associated library (#1173)
quarkiverse/quarkus-langchain4j: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/testing.adoc

It integrates with JUnit 5 and offers tools for automating evaluation processes, scoring outputs, and generating evaluation reports using customizable evaluation strategies.

== Maven Dependency

To use the `ScorerExtension`, include the following Maven dependency in your pom.xml:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.quarkiverse.langchain4j</groupId>
    <artifactId>quarkus-langchain4j-testing-scorer-junit5</artifactId>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
----

== Using the extension

To use the extension, annotate your test class with `@ExtendWith(ScorerExtension.class)` or `@AiScorer`:

[source,java]
----
import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.extension.ExtendWith;
import io.quarkiverse.langchain4j.scorer.junit5.ScorerExtension;

@ExtendWith(ScorerExtension.class)
public class MyScorerTests {

    // Test cases go here
}
----

Or, you can use the `@AiScorer` annotation:

[source,java]
----
import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.extension.ExtendWith;
import io.quarkiverse.langchain4j.scorer.junit5.AiScorer;

@AiScorer
public class MyScorerTests {

    // Test cases go here
}
----

> This Junit5 extension can be combined with `@QuarkusTest` to test Quarkus applications:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This JUnit 5 extension can be combined with `@QuarkusTest` to test Quarkus applications:
```

Author: Fixed.

[source,java]
----
import io.quarkus.test.junit.QuarkusTest;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.extension.ExtendWith;
import io.quarkiverse.langchain4j.scorer.junit5.AiScorer;

@QuarkusTest
@AiScorer
public class MyScorerTests {

    // Test cases go here
}
----

== Concepts

=== Scorer

> The `Scorer` (`io.quarkiverse.langchain4j.testing.scorer.Scorer`) is a utility that evaluates a _set of samples_ (represented by `io.quarkiverse.langchain4j.testing.scorer.Samples`) against a function (parts of the application) and a set of evaluation strategies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Scorer` (`io.quarkiverse.langchain4j.testing.scorer.Scorer`) is a utility that evaluates a _set of samples_ (represented by `io.quarkiverse.langchain4j.testing.scorer.Samples`) against a function (part of the application) and a set of evaluation strategies.
```

Author: Fixed.

It can run evaluations concurrently and produces an `EvaluationReport` summarizing the results and providing the _score_.

The _score_ is the percentage of passed evaluations (between 0.0 and 100.0).
It is calculated as the ratio of the number of passed evaluations to the total number of evaluations.

In general, tests using the `Scorer` follow this pattern:

[source, java]
----
 @Test
void testAiService(@ScorerConfiguration(concurrency = 5) Scorer scorer, // The scorer instance, with concurrency set to 5
                   @SampleLocation("src/test/resources/samples.yaml") Samples<String> samples) { // The samples loaded from a YAML file
    // `aiServiceEvaluation` is a function that takes the sample inputs and returns an output - this is the evaluated output

>     EvaluationReport report = scorer.evaluate(samples, aiServiceEvaluation,

Reviewer: I think having the type of `aiServiceEvaluation` would help to understand things.

Author: Done.

            new SemanticSimilarityStrategy(0.8)); // The evaluation strategy
    assertThat(report.score()).isGreaterThanOrEqualTo(70); // Assert the score
}
----

=== Samples

A `Sample` (`io.quarkiverse.langchain4j.testing.scorer.EvaluationSample`) represents a single input-output test case.
It includes:
- a name: the name of the sample,

> - the inputs: The input data for the test,

Reviewer: I would drop the capitalization here and for the items below or be consistent for the first item (but I recommend the former).

Author: Fixed.

----

Alternatively, samples can be loaded from a YAML file using the `@SampleLocation` annotation:

[source, yaml]
----
- name: Sample1
  inputs:
    - "input1"
  expectedOutput: "expected1"
  tags: ["tag1"]
- name: Sample2
  inputs:
    - "input2"
  expectedOutput: "expected2"
  tags: ["tag1"]
----

=== Evaluation Strategy

An `EvaluationStrategy` (`io.quarkiverse.langchain4j.testing.scorer.EvaluationStrategy`) defines how to evaluate a sample.
The framework includes ready-to-use strategies (detailed below), and you can implement custom ones.

[source, java]
----
/**
 * A strategy to evaluate the output of a model.
 * @param <T> the type of the output.
 */
public interface EvaluationStrategy<T> {

    /**
     * Evaluate the output of a model.
     * @param sample the sample to evaluate.
     * @param output the output of the model.
     * @return {@code true} if the output is correct, {@code false} otherwise.
     */
    boolean evaluate(EvaluationSample<T> sample, T output);

}
----

=== Evaluation Report

The `EvaluationReport` aggregates the results of all evaluations. It provides:

- A global score (percentage of passed evaluations).
- Scores per tag.

> - the possibility to dump the report as Markdown.

Reviewer: Inconsistent capitalization.

Author: Fixed.
